README.md, before:

# Helpers

This package has a few php helpers, for everyday tasks


## Installation

This packages requires Spatie/Analytics for the charts
You can install the package via composer:
``` bash
$ composer require maksuco/Helpers
OR
$ composer require maksuco/Helpers:dev-master
```
This Package works with auto discovery in Laravel +5.5, but is compatible with older versions

## Usage
```php
<?php

use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Helpers;

```

# Device check: Mobile, Tables, Desktop

Response with the correct device, example: (300,'table',200), the response is 300 when is mobile OR 200 if it's desktop. ('mobile','table','desktop')

```php
  \Helpers::agent($mobile,$table,$desktop);
```

# Check if device is Mobile

```php
  \Helpers::mobile();
  //Returns true or false
```

# Check if device is Mobile, Operating System and Browser

```php
  \Helpers::user_agent();
  //Returns Array ( [desktop] => 1 [mobile] => [tablet] =>  [device] => desktop [browser] => Chrome [os] => Macintosh [result] => Macintosh Chrome )
```

# Avatar

This function helps you show the user avatar or the gravatar, just send the user array or email.
In your env file specify "SHOWAVATAR_PATH"

```php

  $img = \Helpers::avatar($user);
  OR
  {{\Helpers::avatar($user->email)}}

```

# First Name

Helps you show the user first name, from a full name, max length of the returned name is 11

```php

  {{\Helpers::firstname($fullname)}}
  //Gina Gutierrez returns Gina
  //Gi Gutierrez returns Gi Gutierrez

```

# Name Initials

```php

  {{\Helpers::initials($fullname)}}
  //SEND Sofia Loren
  //GET SL

```


# Crypto

Here's an example of how to implement crypto to transform strings to hashed keys, using 2 security keys: one set in the .env (CRYPTO_STRING) and another inside the controller, example the $user->id:

```php

  //SEND
  $security = Helpers::encrypt($string,$key);
  //AFTER
  $string = Helpers::decrypt($string,$key);

```

# Active Navigation Page

Send the current page name, example 'about' or 'contactenos', it checks if theres a variable named $active (send from the controller) then checks if the route has a name and then checks the first segment of the page, example: about/history

```php

  {{\Helpers::nav_active($page)}}
  //SEND: nav_active('about')
  //RETURNS: 'active'

```

# Text parser

 Convert plain text to include real html links

```php

  {{\Helpers::text_parse($text)}}
  //SEND: Welcome to http:://apple.com
  //RETURNS: Welcome to <a href="http:://apple.com">http:://apple.com</a>

```

# Get all countries

 A list of countries to show in a select

```php

  {{\Helpers::countries('en')}}
  //RETURNS: Array

```

# Get all languages or lang code name

```php

  {{\Helpers::languages()}}
  //RETURNS: Array
  {{\Helpers::languages('en')}}
  //RETURNS: 'english'

```

# Get all currencies or currency details for echo

 A list of countries to show in a select or currency details like symbol, decimals, name, etc..

```php

  {{\Helpers::currencies()}}
  //RETURNS: Array of names
  {{\Helpers::currencies('usd')}}
  //RETURNS: all data of currency
  {{\Helpers::currency_format('10000.00','usd',false)}}
  //'10000.00','usd' RETURNS: $10,000 usd
  //'100.30','usd' RETURNS: $100.30 usd
  //'10000.30','eur' RETURNS: 10.000,30 €
  //'10000.00','cop',true RETURNS: Array ["result" => "$10.000""symbol" => "$""htmlEntity" => "&#x20B1;""amount" => "10.000""isoCode" => "COP""symbolFirst" => true"decimalSeparator" => ",""thousandsSeparator" => "."]

```

# Location GEOIP

Get the city, country, language and other data from the IP:
This product includes GeoLite2 data created by MaxMind, available from
<a href="https://www.maxmind.com">https://www.maxmind.com</a>.
https://github.com/maxmind/GeoIP2-php

```php

  $location_data = \Helpers::geoip($ip); //\Helpers::geoip($ip,'isp');

```
if you need the function to provide the ip, just put null in the $ip.
if you also want the isp info, just include the second call.


## Date in IP TimeZone

```php

  \Helpers::timezone($ip,Carbon::now());

```

# Location distance between 2 points

The units is optional, default is "miles"

```php
  $distance = \Helpers::distance($lat1, $lon1, $lat2, $lon2, $unit = "K");
```


## Append to json (only works with first level for now)
Send new data to append to a json data or subcategory (subcategory is optional).

You send the DB column as $json, the new object or array as $new.

```php

  \Helpers::appendtojson($json,$new,$subcategory)

```


## Modify csv string action=add,remove,check
Send id's to add, remove or check if exist in csv string

```php

  \Helpers::csvstring($action,$data,$new)

```


## Modify array with action=add,remove,check
Send new data to add, remove, check if exist in array or invert
Works with Sequential and Associative arrays
Invert adds the new if doesn't exist, or removes it if exist and returns the action "added" or "removed"
```php

  \Helpers::array_process($action,$array,$new)

	//$array = ['michael','gina'];
  //array_process('add',$array,'bob') returns ['michael','gina','bob']

  //array_process('remove',$array,'michael') returns ['gina']

  //array_process('invert',$array,'michael') returns "removed" MALLLLLLl
  
  //Associative
	//$array = ['michael'=>'m'];
	//$new = ['michael'=>'something','donald'=>'duck','bob'=>'m'];
  //array_process('add',$array2,$new2) returns ['michael'=>'something','donald'=>'duck','bob'=>'m']
  
	//array_process('check',$array,'gina') returns TRUE

```


# Collection Relations Append

Include in a collection the columns from another table with just one extra query
$principal_relation_column = the principal reference INT, typically id (This is optional)
### Examples: ($user,$post,'user_id',['post_name'=>'name'])

```php
  \Helpers::collection_relation($principal_collection,$second_collection,$second_relation_column,['new_column'=>'second_column_name'],$principal_relation_column)
```



# Column: Array and Json check

Check if a value is in a column (Works with json, array and string explode) //only 1 level
RETURNS: true or false

```php
  {{(\Helpers::column_check($data,$value))? 'YES!':'NO!'}} //($user->favorites,124)
```

# Column Process (if is in column, it will delete it, if not it will add it)

```php
  \Helpers::column_process($data,$table,$column,$value) //($user,'users','favorites',124)
```



# Links

Check if a domain doesn't have the http and adds it, and other links, domains helpers

```php

  {{\Helpers::link($account->domain)}}
  //SEND: somedomain.com
  //RETURNS: http://somedomain.com

```

```php

  $domain = \Helpers::domain_from_email($email);
  //returns the domain from an email if it's not a free service like gmail.com, else it returns false

```



# Email and Domain Check

```php

  if(\Helpers::email_check($email)) {}
  //returns if the email is valid: true or false
  //Also checks if the domain exist
  OR

  if(\Helpers::domain_check($email)) {}
  //returns the domain from the email and checks if it exist
  OR
  if(\Helpers::domain_check('maksuco.com')) {}
  //Checks if the domain exist

```


## File size to bytes calculator
Send '1 mb' and get the result in bytes, send measurements in: b, kb, mb, gb, tb

```php
  \Helpers::sizetobytes('1 mb');
  //returns xxxx bytes
```


## Generate random string
Send the length of the random

```php
  \Helpers::random(4);
  //returns xxxx
  \Helpers::random(4,true);
  //if you want only numbers
```

## Filename Parsing

Get a filename name from a string or url, you can also parse it and get basename, extension and filename 

```php

  $filename = \Helpers::filename('http://xxx.com/this_is_the_name.png?v=xxx');
  //RETURNS: this_is_the_name.png
  OR
  $filename = \Helpers::filename('http://yyyy.com/this_is_the_name.png',true);
  //RETURNS ARRAY: basename: this_is_the_name.png, extension: png, filename: this_is_the_name
  //USE: $filename->basename

```

# Slugs

Here's an example of how to implement the slug function to transform names to slugs:

```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug('Hi how are you? Muy@#$%^&*good');
  //RETURNS: hi-how-are-you-muy-good
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug($name);

```

Transform file names, the second argument specifies a random addon at the end, can be text or INT

```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file('Hi how are you? Muy@#$%^&*good.jpg',0);
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file($file->getClientOriginalName(),5);
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good-hj567.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file($filename,'great-doc');
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good-great-doc.pdf

```

In this function you can specify a new filename (REPLACE) and use the same extension
```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename('SomeFile.jpg','new-name',0);
  //new-name.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename($file->getorriginalname(),'new-image',2);
  //new-image-9i.ext
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename($file,'one','great-images');
  //one-great-images.png

```


Here's an example of how to implement the random function, Adds random at the end of the file name, and checks if its numeric or string
```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_random('new-image');
  //new-image-hv8

```

# Social Sharing
$url can be null to automatically get the current url page

### Facebook Share
$app_id is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::facebookshare($url,$title,$app_id)}}
```

### Twitter Share
$username is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::twittershare($url,$title,$username)}}
```

### LinkedIn Share
$username is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::linkedinshare($url,$title,$username)}}
```

### Pinterest Share
$image is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::pinterestshare($url,$title,$image)}}
```

### ADD POPUP INSTEAD OF target="_blank"
Just add to the link onclick="return popup(this);"
```php
  {!!\Helpers::popup()!!}
```
```js
  onclick="return popup(this);"
```

### GET CURRENT PAGE URL
```php
  {!!\Helpers::currenturl()!!}
```



# VeeValidate Honeypot

### Renders a vee validate html and css honeypot:
```php
  {!!\Helpers::VeeValidateHoneypot()!!}
  {!!\Helpers::VeeValidateHoneypotCSS()!!}
```

### Form input example with css error (cross)
```html
<div class="form-group">
  <label for="email">Email address</label>
  <input type="email" class="form-control" id="email" placeholder="Enter email" v-validate="'required|email'" name="email" :class="{'form-control-invalid': errors.has('email')}">
  <small class="form-text text-danger">@{{errors.first('email')}}</small>
</div>
```

### Vue code example
```js
<script>
Vue.use(VeeValidate); // good to go.
new Vue({
  el: '#formVee',
  data: {
    submit_text: "{{__('Submit')}}",
    time: 0
  },
  created () {
    setInterval(() => { this.time++;}, 1000);
  },
  methods: {
    validateBeforeSubmit: function(e){
      this.$validator.validateAll().then((result) => {
        if(result) {
          if(this.time < 3) { alert('bot!!!');location.reload(); }
          this.submit_text = "<i class='far fa-circle-notch fa-spin'></i>";
          e.target.classList.add('disabled');
          setTimeout(function(){ document.querySelector('#formVee').submit(); }, 500);
        }
      });
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

Commit message:

telto and limit in appendtojson

README.md, after:

# Helpers

This package has a few php helpers, for everyday tasks


## Installation

This packages requires Spatie/Analytics for the charts
You can install the package via composer:
``` bash
$ composer require maksuco/Helpers
OR
$ composer require maksuco/Helpers:dev-master
```
This Package works with auto discovery in Laravel +5.5, but is compatible with older versions

## Usage
```php
<?php

use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Helpers;

```

# Device check: Mobile, Tables, Desktop

Response with the correct device, example: (300,'table',200), the response is 300 when is mobile OR 200 if it's desktop. ('mobile','table','desktop')

```php
  \Helpers::agent($mobile,$table,$desktop);
```

# Check if device is Mobile

```php
  \Helpers::mobile();
  //Returns true or false
```

# Check if device is Mobile, Operating System and Browser

```php
  \Helpers::user_agent();
  //Returns Array ( [desktop] => 1 [mobile] => [tablet] =>  [device] => desktop [browser] => Chrome [os] => Macintosh [result] => Macintosh Chrome )
```

# Avatar

This function helps you show the user avatar or the gravatar, just send the user array or email.
In your env file specify "SHOWAVATAR_PATH"

```php

  $img = \Helpers::avatar($user);
  OR
  {{\Helpers::avatar($user->email)}}

```

# First Name

Helps you show the user first name, from a full name, max length of the returned name is 11

```php

  {{\Helpers::firstname($fullname)}}
  //Gina Gutierrez returns Gina
  //Gi Gutierrez returns Gi Gutierrez

```

# Name Initials

```php

  {{\Helpers::initials($fullname)}}
  //SEND Sofia Loren
  //GET SL

```


# Crypto

Here's an example of how to implement crypto to transform strings to hashed keys, using 2 security keys: one set in the .env (CRYPTO_STRING) and another inside the controller, example the $user->id:

```php

  //SEND
  $security = Helpers::encrypt($string,$key);
  //AFTER
  $string = Helpers::decrypt($string,$key);

```

# Active Navigation Page

Send the current page name, example 'about' or 'contactenos', it checks if theres a variable named $active (send from the controller) then checks if the route has a name and then checks the first segment of the page, example: about/history

```php

  {{\Helpers::nav_active($page)}}
  //SEND: nav_active('about')
  //RETURNS: 'active'

```

# Text parser

 Convert plain text to include real html links

```php

  {{\Helpers::text_parse($text)}}
  //SEND: Welcome to http:://apple.com
  //RETURNS: Welcome to <a href="http:://apple.com">http:://apple.com</a>

```

# Get all countries

 A list of countries to show in a select

```php

  {{\Helpers::countries('en')}}
  //RETURNS: Array

```

# Get all languages or lang code name

```php

  {{\Helpers::languages()}}
  //RETURNS: Array
  {{\Helpers::languages('en')}}
  //RETURNS: 'english'

```

# Get all currencies or currency details for echo

 A list of countries to show in a select or currency details like symbol, decimals, name, etc..

```php

  {{\Helpers::currencies()}}
  //RETURNS: Array of names
  {{\Helpers::currencies('usd')}}
  //RETURNS: all data of currency
  {{\Helpers::currency_format('10000.00','usd',false)}}
  //'10000.00','usd' RETURNS: $10,000 usd
  //'100.30','usd' RETURNS: $100.30 usd
  //'10000.30','eur' RETURNS: 10.000,30 €
  //'10000.00','cop',true RETURNS: Array ["result" => "$10.000""symbol" => "$""htmlEntity" => "&#x20B1;""amount" => "10.000""isoCode" => "COP""symbolFirst" => true"decimalSeparator" => ",""thousandsSeparator" => "."]

```

# Location GEOIP

Get the city, country, language and other data from the IP:
This product includes GeoLite2 data created by MaxMind, available from
<a href="https://www.maxmind.com">https://www.maxmind.com</a>.
https://github.com/maxmind/GeoIP2-php

```php

  $location_data = \Helpers::geoip($ip); //\Helpers::geoip($ip,'isp');

```
if you need the function to provide the ip, just put null in the $ip.
if you also want the isp info, just include the second call.


## Date in IP TimeZone

```php

  \Helpers::timezone($ip,Carbon::now());

```

# Location distance between 2 points

The units is optional, default is "miles"

```php
  $distance = \Helpers::distance($lat1, $lon1, $lat2, $lon2, $unit = "K");
```


## Append to json (only works with first level for now)
Send new data to append to a json data or subcategory (subcategory and limit are optional).

You send the DB column as $json, the new object or array as $new.

```php

  \Helpers::appendtojson($json,$new,$subcategory,$limit)

```
LImit, sets a limit for the amounts of records


## Modify csv string action=add,remove,check
Send id's to add, remove or check if exist in csv string

```php

  \Helpers::csvstring($action,$data,$new)

```


## Modify array with action=add,remove,check
Send new data to add, remove, check if exist in array or invert
Works with Sequential and Associative arrays
Invert adds the new if doesn't exist, or removes it if exist and returns the action "added" or "removed"
```php

  \Helpers::array_process($action,$array,$new)

	//$array = ['michael','gina'];
  //array_process('add',$array,'bob') returns ['michael','gina','bob']

  //array_process('remove',$array,'michael') returns ['gina']

  //array_process('invert',$array,'michael') returns "removed" MALLLLLLl
  
  //Associative
	//$array = ['michael'=>'m'];
	//$new = ['michael'=>'something','donald'=>'duck','bob'=>'m'];
  //array_process('add',$array2,$new2) returns ['michael'=>'something','donald'=>'duck','bob'=>'m']
  
	//array_process('check',$array,'gina') returns TRUE

```


# Collection Relations Append

Include in a collection the columns from another table with just one extra query
$principal_relation_column = the principal reference INT, typically id (This is optional)
### Examples: ($user,$post,'user_id',['post_name'=>'name'])

```php
  \Helpers::collection_relation($principal_collection,$second_collection,$second_relation_column,['new_column'=>'second_column_name'],$principal_relation_column)
```



# Column: Array and Json check

Check if a value is in a column (Works with json, array and string explode) //only 1 level
RETURNS: true or false

```php
  {{(\Helpers::column_check($data,$value))? 'YES!':'NO!'}} //($user->favorites,124)
```

# Column Process (if is in column, it will delete it, if not it will add it)

```php
  \Helpers::column_process($data,$table,$column,$value) //($user,'users','favorites',124)
```



# Links

Check if a domain doesn't have the http and adds it, and other links, domains helpers

```php

  {{\Helpers::link($account->domain)}}
  //SEND: somedomain.com
  //RETURNS: http://somedomain.com

```

```php

  $domain = \Helpers::domain_from_email($email);
  //returns the domain from an email if it's not a free service like gmail.com, else it returns false

```



# Transform number to telto number

```php

  {{\Helpers::telto($phone)}}
  //SEND: +1 (305) 890 8989
  //RETURNS: 13058908989

```



# Email and Domain Check

```php

  if(\Helpers::email_check($email)) {}
  //returns if the email is valid: true or false
  //Also checks if the domain exist
  OR

  if(\Helpers::domain_check($email)) {}
  //returns the domain from the email and checks if it exist
  OR
  if(\Helpers::domain_check('maksuco.com')) {}
  //Checks if the domain exist

```


## File size to bytes calculator
Send '1 mb' and get the result in bytes, send measurements in: b, kb, mb, gb, tb

```php
  \Helpers::sizetobytes('1 mb');
  //returns xxxx bytes
```


## Generate random string
Send the length of the random

```php
  \Helpers::random(4);
  //returns xxxx
  \Helpers::random(4,true);
  //if you want only numbers
```

## Filename Parsing

Get a filename name from a string or url, you can also parse it and get basename, extension and filename 

```php

  $filename = \Helpers::filename('http://xxx.com/this_is_the_name.png?v=xxx');
  //RETURNS: this_is_the_name.png
  OR
  $filename = \Helpers::filename('http://yyyy.com/this_is_the_name.png',true);
  //RETURNS ARRAY: basename: this_is_the_name.png, extension: png, filename: this_is_the_name
  //USE: $filename->basename

```

# Slugs

Here's an example of how to implement the slug function to transform names to slugs:

```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug('Hi how are you? Muy@#$%^&*good');
  //RETURNS: hi-how-are-you-muy-good
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug($name);

```

Transform file names, the second argument specifies a random addon at the end, can be text or INT

```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file('Hi how are you? Muy@#$%^&*good.jpg',0);
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file($file->getClientOriginalName(),5);
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good-hj567.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_file($filename,'great-doc');
  //hi-how-are-you-muy-good-great-doc.pdf

```

In this function you can specify a new filename (REPLACE) and use the same extension
```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename('SomeFile.jpg','new-name',0);
  //new-name.jpg
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename($file->getorriginalname(),'new-image',2);
  //new-image-9i.ext
  OR
  $slug = \Helpers::slug_filename($file,'one','great-images');
  //one-great-images.png

```


Here's an example of how to implement the random function, Adds random at the end of the file name, and checks if its numeric or string
```php

  $slug = \Helpers::slug_random('new-image');
  //new-image-hv8

```

# Social Sharing
$url can be null to automatically get the current url page

### Facebook Share
$app_id is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::facebookshare($url,$title,$app_id)}}
```

### Twitter Share
$username is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::twittershare($url,$title,$username)}}
```

### LinkedIn Share
$username is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::linkedinshare($url,$title,$username)}}
```

### Pinterest Share
$image is optional
```php
  {{\Helpers::pinterestshare($url,$title,$image)}}
```

### ADD POPUP INSTEAD OF target="_blank"
Just add to the link onclick="return popup(this);"
```php
  {!!\Helpers::popup()!!}
```
```js
  onclick="return popup(this);"
```

### GET CURRENT PAGE URL
```php
  {!!\Helpers::currenturl()!!}
```



# VeeValidate Honeypot

### Renders a vee validate html and css honeypot:
```php
  {!!\Helpers::VeeValidateHoneypot()!!}
  {!!\Helpers::VeeValidateHoneypotCSS()!!}
```

### Form input example with css error (cross)
```html
<div class="form-group">
  <label for="email">Email address</label>
  <input type="email" class="form-control" id="email" placeholder="Enter email" v-validate="'required|email'" name="email" :class="{'form-control-invalid': errors.has('email')}">
  <small class="form-text text-danger">@{{errors.first('email')}}</small>
</div>
```

### Vue code example
```js
<script>
Vue.use(VeeValidate); // good to go.
new Vue({
  el: '#formVee',
  data: {
    submit_text: "{{__('Submit')}}",
    time: 0
  },
  created () {
    setInterval(() => { this.time++;}, 1000);
  },
  methods: {
    validateBeforeSubmit: function(e){
      this.$validator.validateAll().then((result) => {
        if(result) {
          if(this.time < 3) { alert('bot!!!');location.reload(); }
          this.submit_text = "<i class='far fa-circle-notch fa-spin'></i>";
          e.target.classList.add('disabled');
          setTimeout(function(){ document.querySelector('#formVee').submit(); }, 500);
        }
      });
    }
  }
})
</script>
```
